february 29th 1932
four german aviators took off on a trip
around the world
they wanted to find companies and
markets for the aviation industry
and build up profitable business
relationships the team of aviators used
a small plane which could take off and
land on both land and water
the men expected their journey would be
full of interesting adventures
but none of them imagined it would
become a real nightmare
the team consisted of pilot hans bertram
his co-pilot tom
mechanic adolph klausman and cameraman
alexander von lagorio
who filmed their journey and planned to
make a movie afterwards
the first 10 weeks of the trip were very
successful
the team flew almost halfway around the
world from italy to indonesia
the last stop where all four team
members were still together was jakarta
at this point they agreed to separate
and meet again
in shanghai pilot bertram and mechanic
klausman were left alone on the plane
on may 13th they replaced the vehicle's
engine at a naval airfield in the dutch
west indies
and landed in the city of cupang the
next day to refuel
this was the last time they would see
the world they were familiar with
before their ordeal began bertram and
klausman flew to australia
they planned to travel 520 miles in six
hours
it turned into a difficult night that
they would remember for the rest of
their lives
it was after midnight the plane was
flying over the timor sea
and they expected to land at dawn clouds
were gathering ahead
and the plane flew into a black raging
storm
flashes of lightning heavy rain and a
strong wind disrupted the aviator's
plans
the plane couldn't keep flying in those
conditions and hans bertram decided to
land immediately
they came down in a northern region of
western australia
hundreds of miles away from their
destination the two men had every kind
of modern navigation equipment available
at the time
but this wasn't enough to stop them
getting lost
they made a mistake in working out the
exact coordinates of their location
they were wrong by about 230 miles
they spent the first night in the dense
thickets of a jungle
they had made an emergency landing and
weren't sure about their exact location
but they were good travelers and the
plane had a little fuel
so they didn't panic instead they
decided to rest
at that moment there was a crunch of
branches and an aboriginal man from the
local balanguera tribe came out of the
bushes
he wasn't expecting to encounter these
guests they looked at each other
and said a few words in their own
languages but couldn't understand
anything
the aboriginal men left and the two
aviators waited for dawn
the travelers decided to fly west toward
the city of darwin
they took off but they quickly ran out
of fuel
darwin was nowhere to be seen and they
made another emergency landing in a
different bay
now they became worried they had no fuel
food or water they didn't really know
where they were
their only chance was to walk back to
the place where they had landed the
first time
they wanted to find the aboriginal man
again and ask him for help
days passed hunger thirst and the
unbearable heat
tormented them it seemed like the
situation couldn't get any worse
but there were still several hard tests
ahead
with each step the men's strength slowly
left them
then they encountered a swarm of wild
flies these flies were aggressive
there were a lot of them and every
single fly seemed to want a bite out of
them
bertram and klausman ran trying to hide
from the insects
then they had to swim across the bay to
reach their destination
they jumped into the water and managed
to escape from the insects
but there was something else waiting for
them there a crocodile
the men managed to escape from the
fearsome predator
during the struggle to survive they lost
their clothes and shoes
they made it out of the water hungry and
bitten by mosquitoes
they realized that they had no idea
where to go to find the aboriginal man
but they did know the route back to the
plane the thought of the water
left in the plane's radiator gave them
strength they decided to go back there
on the 13th day they found their plane
they took out the radiator and drank all
the water that had accumulated
there they began to think about what to
do next
so they decided to continue their
journey via the water
their aircraft was equipped with two
seaplane floats
they took one down and turned it into a
canoe
bertram and klausman sailed west
fortunately the water was calm
the men rode confidently believing that
they would find someone
but they were going the wrong way since
they didn't know their true location
suddenly they noticed a ship finally
they were saved
the ship was just fifteen hundred feet
away from them
bertram and klausman shouted waved their
hands and beat the water
but unfortunately no one heard them they
watched the ship
slowly move away they spent the next
four days and nights in the water
then they reached the shore they thought
they were on melville island
the men left the boat and went in search
of civilization
but they found nothing but more heat
insects and jungle
they returned to their canoe it was
damaged and the aviators had to cut part
of it off
now it was unusable they managed to go
only a few miles
before returning to the shore bertram
and klausman didn't know what to do next
so they sheltered under a rock ledge
from the bad weather in the sun
39 days had passed since the storm had
forced them to land
they'd almost lost all hope but at this
moment
a local tribe of aborigines found them
they helped the two men giving them food
and water
a week later a rescue team arrived
it turned out that about 60 people had
been searching for the missing travelers
in fact the search team had walked along
almost the exact same route
they found the plane and bertram's
handkerchief
if bertram and klausman had stayed at
the aircraft a little longer
they would have been rescued much
earlier for 39 days
bertram and klausman survived in the hot
jungle
this may sound like a real nightmare but
one australian man deliberately repeated
their experience
he went to the same area in 2017 right
to the place where bertram and klausman
landed
he walked and sailed the same route they
took in 1932
he didn't take any food or water and had
the same equipment as the two aviators
he wanted to prove to himself that he
could survive what they had gone through
and he did he even recorded the whole
journey on camera
and made a documentary